README.md, before:

# RAG Service

RAG Service is a template service for a retrieval-augmented generator based on the examples of LangChain. See: [Build a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) App](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/rag/)

## Technologies

[![Used in this project](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=vscode,py,flask,ai,md,linux,bash,nginx,git,raspberrypi)](https://skillicons.dev)

## Installation

1. Clone [L1Blom/rag](https://github.com/L1Blom/rag) to your project directory
2. Move config.py_example to config.py and add your API Key
3. Choose an ID for your instance, like MyDocs
4. Copy constants/constants.py to constants_MyDocs.py
5. Change the contents of this file to reflect your situation
6. Create a data/ directory and create a MyDocs/ directory in it
7. Add the files for your RAG context, like text-files
8. Create a Python virtual environment for your project (optional)
9. Modify the example services/rag.service_template file to point to the right place of your project directory
10. Copy the services file to /etc/systed/system/rag_MyDocs.service
11. Enable and start the service

```bash
sudo systemctl enable rag_MyDocs
sudo systemctl start rag_MyDocs
sudo systemctl status rag_MyDocs
```

## Commands

All calls support POST and GET. For \<ID\> use your chosen ID like MyDocs

1. /prompt/\<ID\>/
    Parameter: prompt (string)
    Your prompt to be send to openAI

2. /prompt/\<ID\>/model
    Parameter: model (string)
    Your model to be used, like "gpt-4o"
    Checking on valid models with OpenAI client.models.list(). Can result in http 500 error (non-fatal)

3. /prompt/\<ID\>/temp
    Parameter: temp (string, will be cast to float)
    Temperature setting, between 0.0 and 2.0
    Settings above 1.0 can give significant halicunations and degrades performance too.
    Timeout can result in http 408 error (non-fatal)

4. /prompt/\<ID\>/reload
    Parameters: none
    After adding files to your data directory, use this to reload the vector store

5. /prompt/\<ID\>/clear
    Paramters: none
    Clears the cache, the in-memory history

6. /prompt/\<ID\>/cache
    Paramaters: none
    Prints the cache contents to the response object

7. /prompt/\<ID\>/image
    Parameters: prompt (string), image (URL to image)
    Uploads the image to openAI and use prompt to get the desired contents like: 'What is the mood of the persons?'
    Note: only works if model is set to 'gpt-4o'. Other models result in http 500 error (non-fatal)

## Usage

```bash
# change the model
curl -X POST --data-urlencode "model=gpt-4o" http://<your server>:<your port>/prompt/<ID>/model
Model set to: gpt-4o(your virtual env) 
# prompt to your data
curl -X POST --data-urlencode "prompt=your question?" http://<your server>:<your port>/prompt/<ID>
Your answer based on the context files provided in data/<ID>
```

## Constants file

```python
# simple string like "mydata"
ID="<your identifier" 
# any unused port, will run the Flask server
PORT=9100
# Set to True if you want to enable Flask debug
DEBUG=False
# Any other level will make it less verbose
LOGGING_LEVEL="INFO"
# Directory that will be scanned for files to be added to the context
DATA_DIR="/home/data"
# All the file extentions you want to be part of the context, see LangChain documentation
DATA_GLOB="*.txt" 
# The lower, the more precise. Needs to be between 0.0 and 2.0
TEMPERATURE=0.0 
# Influences the way answers are produced
contextualize_q_system_prompt = (
        "Given a chat history and the latest user question "
        "which might reference context in the chat history, "
        "formulate a standalone question which can be understood "
    )
# Influences the way answers are produced
system_prompt = ( # choose your language, English works best
        "You are a chatbot and gives answer in not more than 3 sentences"
    )
chunk_size=1000    # depending on your data, seel LangChain documentation
chunk_overlap=100  # idem
```

## Unit tests

To run the unit tests, run the program in the project directory using the ID '_unittest'.
It will start a local RAG service accessible at port 8888 (see constants__unittest.py for all defaults).

```bash
<your virtual environment>/bin/python ragservice.py _unittest
Arguments count: 2
Argument      0: ragservice.py
Argument      1: _unittest
INFO:httpx:HTTP Request: GET https://api.openai.com/v1/models "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
INFO:root:Context loaded from 1 documents
INFO:chromadb.telemetry.product.posthog:Anonymized telemetry enabled. See                     https://docs.trychroma.com/telemetry for more information.
INFO:httpx:HTTP Request: POST https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
INFO:root:Chain initialized: gpt-4o
 * Serving Flask app 'ragservice'
 * Debug mode: off
INFO:werkzeug:WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8888
 * Running on http://192.168.2.200:8888
INFO:werkzeug:Press CTRL+C to quit
```

Now you are able to run the unit tests:

```bash
<your virtual environament>/bin/python ragservice_unittest.py -v
test_chache_content (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_chache_content)
Test to print the contents of the cache ... ok
test_clear (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_clear)
Test to clear the cache ... ok
test_model (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_model)
Test model setting, correct or incorrect model according to OpenAI ... ok
test_prompt (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_prompt)
Test prompt ... ok
test_reload (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_reload)
Test reload of the data ... ok
test_temperature (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_temperature)
Test to set temparature too high, low, within boundaries 0.0 and 2.0 ... ok

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 6 tests in 3.761s

OK
```

## TODO's and wishes

- More file formats like PDF
- Saving the vectorstore
- Upload files
- Other API's than OpenAI and other LLM's
- A simple frontend from the GitHub community

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Completed unit tests for image recognition

README.md, after:

# RAG Service

RAG Service is a template service for a retrieval-augmented generator based on the examples of LangChain. See: [Build a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) App](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/tutorials/rag/)

## Technologies

[![Used in this project](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=vscode,py,flask,ai,md,linux,bash,nginx,git,raspberrypi)](https://skillicons.dev)

## Installation

1. Clone [L1Blom/rag](https://github.com/L1Blom/rag) to your project directory
2. Move config.py_example to config.py and add your API Key
3. Choose an ID for your instance, like MyDocs
4. Copy constants/constants.py to constants_MyDocs.py
5. Change the contents of this file to reflect your situation
6. Create a data/ directory and create a MyDocs/ directory in it
7. Add the files for your RAG context, like text-files
8. Create a Python virtual environment for your project (optional)
9. Modify the example services/rag.service_template file to point to the right place of your project directory
10. Copy the services file to /etc/systed/system/rag_MyDocs.service
11. Enable and start the service

```bash
sudo systemctl enable rag_MyDocs
sudo systemctl start rag_MyDocs
sudo systemctl status rag_MyDocs
```

## Commands

All calls support POST and GET. For \<ID\> use your chosen ID like MyDocs

1. /prompt/\<ID\>/

    Parameter: prompt (string)

    Your prompt to be send to openAI

2. /prompt/\<ID\>/model

    Parameter: model (string)

    Your model to be used, like "gpt-4o"

    Checking on valid models with OpenAI client.models.list(). Can result in http 500 error (non-fatal)

3. /prompt/\<ID\>/temp

    Parameter: temp (string, will be cast to float)

    Temperature setting, between 0.0 and 2.0

    Settings above 1.0 can give significant halicunations and degrades performance too.

    Timeout can result in http 408 error (non-fatal)

4. /prompt/\<ID\>/reload

    Parameters: none

    After adding files to your data directory, use this to reload the vector store

5. /prompt/\<ID\>/clear

    Paramters: none

    Clears the cache, the in-memory history

6. /prompt/\<ID\>/cache

    Paramaters: none

    Prints the cache contents to the response object

7. /prompt/\<ID\>/image

    Parameters: prompt (string), image (URL to image)

    Uploads the image to openAI and use prompt to get the desired contents like: 'What is the mood of the persons?'

    Note: only works if model is set to 'gpt-4o'. Other models result in http 500 error (non-fatal)

## Usage

```bash
# change the model
curl -X POST --data-urlencode "model=gpt-4o" http://<your server>:<your port>/prompt/<ID>/model

Model set to: gpt-4o
# prompt to your data
curl -X POST --data-urlencode "prompt=your question?" http://<your server>:<your port>/prompt/<ID>

Your answer based on the context files provided in data/<ID>
```

## Constants file

```python
# simple string like "mydata"
ID="<your identifier>" 
# any unused port, will run the Flask server
PORT=9100
# Set to True if you want to enable Flask debug
DEBUG=False
# Any other level will make it less verbose
LOGGING_LEVEL="INFO"
# Where the files reside for unit testing
HTML="data/_unittest/html"
# Directory that will be scanned for files to be added to the context
DATA_DIR="/home/data"
# All the file extentions you want to be part of the context, see LangChain documentation
DATA_GLOB="*.txt" 
# The lower, the more precise. Needs to be between 0.0 and 2.0
TEMPERATURE=0.0 
# Influences the way answers are produced
contextualize_q_system_prompt = (
        "Given a chat history and the latest user question "
        "which might reference context in the chat history, "
        "formulate a standalone question which can be understood "
    )
# Influences the way answers are produced
system_prompt = ( # choose your language, English works best
        "You are a chatbot and gives answer in not more than 3 sentences"
    )
chunk_size=1000    # depending on your data, seel LangChain documentation
chunk_overlap=100  # idem
```

## Unit tests

To run the unit tests, run the program in the project directory using the ID '_unittest'.
It will start a local RAG service accessible at port 8888 (see constants__unittest.py for all defaults).

```bash
<your virtual environment>/bin/python ragservice.py _unittest
INFO:httpx:HTTP Request: GET https://api.openai.com/v1/models "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
INFO:root:Context loaded from 1 documents
INFO:chromadb.telemetry.product.posthog:Anonymized telemetry enabled. See                     https://docs.trychroma.com/telemetry for more information.
INFO:httpx:HTTP Request: POST https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
INFO:root:Chain initialized: gpt-4o
 * Serving Flask app 'ragservice'
 * Debug mode: off
INFO:werkzeug:WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8888
 * Running on http://192.168.2.200:8888
INFO:werkzeug:Press CTRL+C to quit
```

Now you are able to run the unit tests:

```bash
<your virtual environament>/bin/python ragservice_unittest.py -v
test_chache_content (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_chache_content)
Test to print the contents of the cache ... ok
test_clear (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_clear)
Test to clear the cache ... ok
test_image (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_image)
Test image ... ok
test_model (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_model)
Test model setting, correct or incorrect model according to OpenAI ... ok
test_prompt (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_prompt)
Test prompt ... ok
test_reload (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_reload)
Test reload of the data ... ok
test_temperature (__main__.RagServiceMethods.test_temperature)
Test to set temparature too high, low, within boundaries 0.0 and 2.0 ... ok

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 7 tests in 5.923s

OK
```

## TODO's and wishes

- More file formats like PDF
- Saving the vectorstore
- Upload files
- Other API's than OpenAI and other LLM's
- A simple frontend from the GitHub community

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

The image used in the unittest is licensed [CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/) and was found at [Trusted Reviews](https://www.trustedreviews.com/versus/chat-gpt-4-vs-chat-gpt-3-4309130)
